Ladies and gentlemen, friends of Tennessee, I am Estes Kefover.
I'm speaking to you from the NATO Parliamentary Conference in Paris France.
This is a meeting of the delegates selected by the Congresses and
Parliament of the 15 NATO countries.
I accepted appointment as a member of the United States delegation because I
believe this meeting is of vital importance to our own safety at home and through the
NATO organization in the, I offer to have solidarity among the nations of the
North Atlantic, Western Europe and of the United States.
As we have met here, two Sputniks have been constantly encircling the globe which
reminds us of the scientific contest that we are engaged in today with the
Communist World and of the necessity of the people who believe in freedom, democracy,
decency, joining together as closely as possible.
Furthermore, in December just three weeks from now, the NATO Council, the heads of
states, will meet here in the same building in Paris France.
And we feel that the suggestions and the work of the Parliamentarians will be helpful in
paving the way for them.
I'm very proud to have with me today a very distinguished delegate, a member of
Parliament from the United Kingdom, Mr. Jeffries, Jeffries Diffrétis.
Mr. Diffrétis, let me say is one of the outstanding and great men in the
Parliament of our friendmen, our great friend and ally, great Britain.
One of these days, Mr. Diffrétis will probably be the Secretary of Air or the Secretary
of Defense, he is a leading member of Parliament.
Mr. Diffrétis and I have had the pleasure of serving together on the so-called political
committee of the NATO Parliamentary Association.
Here's our position, is that a rapporteur.
Now that is aware if it's not a function that's not used, we don't know much about it in
the United States.
But it means that he is the chief man on the committee, that he prepares the report and
he prepared an excellent political report, that he gets the consensus of opinion about
the resolutions and the proposals to be made, that he then grabs the proposals.
And it takes the lead in that debate and has done it splendidly when they proposals
or the resolutions come before the general session of the NATO Parliamentary Conference.
And it's been very remarkable that all of our resolutions were accepted unanimously.
And that's due to great extent to the fine draftsmanship and explanations and through
the standing and influence of my friend here, Mr. Diffrétis.
Certainly, I'm happy to have you on this program, Jeffrey.
Thank you very much, Charles.
Let me ask, are you, um, Ben to the United States, a great deal?
And, yes, I have.
I've actually been in 47 now, to the 48 states.
Well, then I know if you've been in 47 now, to the 48, you must have been through the
great volunteer state of Plannis.
I have.
I wouldn't have died calling this program if I didn't get the other one at this.
And, uh, when was it you were there, Jeffrey, in Tennessee?
Well, in Tennessee, that was, um, in 1935.
Well, I must have been a very, very young man at that time.
Well, I was studying at Yale at the time, and so I had a look at the south.
Well, I went to school at Yale, I'm not saying I'm a study, but I think...
And I think you, uh, also married a very lovely American girl.
I did, I did so.
So, then we have a lot in common, and we certainly are happy to have Mr. Fredas, as I
are guests today.
Well, you tell us, uh, what you think about the work of the conference and, uh, the importance
of the conference, Jeffrey.
Well, I've been, uh, one of the most important features of the fact that Senator Keith
Ferber was elected chairman of the political committee, the committee, he's referred to.
You see, before you go off...
Yeah, I wanted to just, uh, tell the, uh, my friends in Tennessee that I didn't put you
up to...
I know that, but you...
Rather, uh, built me up a little bit by saying I was the most important man in the committee.
I just wanted to make it, uh, straight, uh, Senator Keith Ferber was elected chairman by
the 15 countries, and it's true, I was rapporteur.
But that meant to see that, as rapporteur this committee, I had to work very first to, uh, the
chairman, so I've seen a, uh, good deal of, uh, uh, uh, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I have, I've
been doing a lot of few days.
I think the most important point that we've done is to, uh, uh, one of the most important
things we've decided was to accept the resolution, looking right ahead to, uh, the conference,
governmental conference, to study the Atlantic community and what it really was based on.
Well, uh, Jeffrey, in that connection, we have a political committee reported two resolutions,
uh, first was how they, uh, have, uh, this NATO parliamentary association be the nucleus
around which a great citizens Congress, uh, would be held in 1959, the 10th anniversary of the
NATO treaty, uh, North Atlantic treaty.
This would be in the nature of a, hey, conference, I believe, uh, will you tell us how you envisioned, uh,
yeah, it's great conference.
And, uh, in 1959, being the anniversary of 10th anniversary, we'd have a, uh, get together of all
people representing institutions, organizations, and so on, who are interested in bringing the
country's round the Atlantic closer together.
And they would have a, uh, discuss it.
Ten years ago, there was a similar conference, um, in Europe, and it had a great, it had
had a great results in making European nations realize how much they had in common, I'm
very important.
I believe the hate conference in 1948, at which Mr. Churchill and, uh, great minute distinguished
Europeans, uh, were present and spoke, uh, resulted in the Strasbourg, the creation of the Council
of Europe, and many other, very worthwhile things that have been done to bring the European community
together.
Didn't it?
Yes, it did.
And that Council of Europe has provided twice a year opportunity for members of parliament
and different countries in Europe to meet and discuss common problems.
They don't, they can't take any executive action, but they can, uh, there are different points
of view, and that's a enormous importance.
Yes, it is.
And, uh, I think we also envisioned this, uh, hate conference on the 10th anniversary of the
North Atlantic Treaty, to, uh, from, uh, be a time for people back home to talk about and think
about and study, uh, NATO problems, the problems of the Atlantic community.
Because we realize that NATO will only be as strong and, and as effective as it, uh, has
backing from the people, and this will be a time of, uh, mobilization of that public backing.
The, uh, other, uh, other, uh, part of this, uh, very important resolution is something that
I've been wishing on for a long, long time in the Congress of the United States, or similar
to it, and that is to set up a conference or a commission, uh, the delegates of which
would be selected by the respective 15 governments of NATO, to, uh, seriously study and to recommend
ways and means of implementing and, uh, the NATO idea of bringing about better cooperation
unity among the nations of the North Atlantic.
I'm very hopeful at, uh, at the meeting here in December that President Eisenhower and
the other heads of state may, uh, implement this resolution.
What do you think about this, this general idea?
I think it's a statement.
I think it, the two of them fitting very well.
One is the, the big Congress and this, the other one, and I, I believe the governments
meeting next month, when everyone's, this well-aware importance now of NATO and this
alliance that they will go forward and set up such a conference.
Everything to me that in a three-day meeting such as, uh, this will be, uh, three weeks
from now with heads of government here that, uh, they can only agree upon general principles
that the implementation that details will have to be worked out by commission or conference
and, uh, this, uh, recommendation, uh, hope will fit what they may do at that time.
And I know that there's no harm at least from talking things over.
Uh, Jeffrey, we had, uh, one estimate in the conference, uh, unfortunate one growing
out of the, uh, decision of the United Kingdom and the United States to send arms to the
nation of Tunisia.
Will you, uh, tell us what happened?
Yeah, next thing is that, well, it is right, we're, we're in France and you really have
to be here to realize how extremely touchy the French are about anything that appears
to be helping the nationalists in Algeria.
And of course, this has been construed in the way that it, the, the legs that arms would
go from Tunisia into Algeria.
And of course, the emotions of very charge are for old French hair people, fighting where
they can't be killed out.
And one manifestation of it was that the French, derogation here, all the French members of
parliament, um, as a protest against the action of the two governments, the British and American,
left the conference walk right out.
It might, in my opinion, it was a silly thing to do because you gained nothing by walking
out, but just not there to put your own point of view.
Uh, yes, well, I certainly agree that, uh, walking out doesn't do any good.
And, uh, as you say, they can be more effective if they stay in the meeting and, uh, present
their point of view.
And, uh, I think it's fair to say that there's a great deal of sympathy with the French
position.
Uh, I can certainly understand how they feel about it.
Uh, I believe that one, uh, thing that was not done in this connection and, uh, I think
this was a mistake, uh, not to have done it was that the members of NATO, the NATO ministerial
council and Mr. Paul Enre's, Bob, the, uh, Secretary General of NATO was not, he was
not informed.
There was no consultation between the members.
So that this is, uh, one of those things that is disrupted our unity and it is something
it should have been discussed all the way around, uh, by the NATO ministerial, uh, group
before any action was taken because France is a great and precious friend of the United
States and United Kingdom.
And we don't want anything to happen that's going to permanently disrupt your eye or cause
a, uh, this unity with, uh, France, we certainly hope they will come back in the conference.
And I hope that in the future that our State Department may, uh, handle matters differently.
I'm not very, I doubt very much the wisdom of what they did, but certainly the way they
did it was bad.
Yes.
But, Devere, will you tell us some of the other, uh, outstanding achievements of this, uh,
conference?
On that very point, of course, we passed our committee offered a resolution, which was
accepted, unanimous, they just, to moment, just, um, this morning on this very matter.
That is to say the importance, stressing the importance of consultation between the nations.
And then, uh, there's a, um, there's a scientific point.
I think that's an important one.
Yes.
Why don't you say a word about the, uh, scientific?
Well, it's just that we've all, we've accepted the resolution of the fate of pooling of
scientific and technical manpower among the NATO countries.
The general principle is that it's an up to us to implement it.
That was, uh, really an implementation of our President Eisenhower and Prime Minister
Macmillan agreed upon in Washington sometime back.
And that, uh, report incident, it was presented by Senator Henry Jackson from the state of
Washington, who was a great friend of us in Tennessee.
Well, uh, and Jeffrey, this is about all the time we have.
We want to extend you a welcome to come down to our state.
Uh, we hope you will come down and see the Tennessee Valley Authority again, like
you.
And, uh, we'll be very happy to see you and it's been a great pleasure to be on this
program.
Thank you very much.